Okay,
guys on.
Welcome back.
The major system.
Okay,
now we come to the good stuff.
I will show you the two most effective systems from memorizing long numbers.
One is perfect for memorizing numbers on the fly.
If you're out and about and the other is perfect.
If you have a little more time to build your pneumonic scene will do that one first.
The major system was developed by Stanley Slice Mink on Wednesday.
I'm in the 17th century,
so he's been around for a while.
The major system is based on quite a simple premise.
If you can convert numbers to letters and then convert those letters toe words,
they're easier to recall.
A toll drew simple.
Now each of the numbers from zero through nine have a specific letter or,
more accurately,
a frenetic sound associated with them.
And after that,
you just used the veils or the letters W,
h,
y or X to fill in the blanks.
You'll be glad to know that there is a built in way to memorize which numbers correspond to
which letters and sounds which,
if you read through it a couple of times,
you can memorize in about 10 minutes.
And trust me,
it's 10 minutes well spent.
Now you can get this table is downloadable resource in this lecture.
But the full table looks like this so you can see down the side.
We have the number zero through nine,
and each of them has a constant sound.
So zero is s Zedd or a soft C.
So examples would be sue zoo an ace notice that we're filling in with vowels on the way to
remember that is that zero starts with said and so on and so forth all the way down till we
get to nine,
which is P or B,
which could be the words ape or be on DPI and nine.
Both have a loop and a tail.
Let's take a couple of simple worked examples.
Let's say we wanted to remember that satin has 62 confirmed moons would take the letter
sound for six the letter sound for two and see if we could make a word.
But six equals J C H S H or soft G and two equals n.
So we could say h six and no for two.
That would give us Shin.
But by dropping a vowel or two in there,
we could create the word.
Shine Valley is a word that we could easily use in a demonic seem to remember that satin
has 62 moons not shine on it can see how that works.
So let's look at another Imagine.
You need to memorize the atomic number of plutonium 94 that would give us nine,
which would be a B or A P and four,
which is our now.
That would give us quite a few options.
We could a bear pair beer.
Pia,
Let's go with BIA,
you can probably make a picture of plutonium,
right?
Me.
I would use the Disney dog Pluto's,
and you may associate plutonium with atomic bonds.
So is there any scene that you could imagine using your knees that would involve a Disney
dog,
an atomic bomb on beer?
That's probably another great combination,
but I bet you wouldn't forget it.
So that's all well and good.
But what if you need to remember a three digit number?
Well,
you could continue with a major system and come up with the word that has all three letter
sounds,
but personally,
I find that that can get a little too demanding for my small brain if I need to do it on
the fly,
but we'll come to that later.
But there is an easy solution.
Just tag on the last digit,
using either the number shape or the number rime system.
I'll show you what I mean pending on where in the world you are.
This may not apply,
so take it as an illustration In the UK,
the emergency phone number is 999 In the States,
it's 911 But in almost 90 other countries around the world,
including most of the European Union,
the emergency phone number is 112 So you're on holiday in the beautiful Dominican Republic
.
Actually,
911 works there,
but we'll ignore that for a minute.
Is in the major system.
We would have D or T twice and an end so we could reach,
tighten or audition,
but neither extremely useful for memorizing which number to call in an emergency.
Right?
So But if we took 11 and applied the major system,
we could get to the word dead.
And if we turned on a swan,
the number shame for two,
we could probably come up with the seen much more easily.
But what about four digit numbers and beyond?
Well,
we just keep going.
Let's say we wanted to remember that the address for the White House for 1600 Pennsylvania
Avenue we could break that down into 16 and double zero 16 could give us D.
J.
And that's quite easy to picture.
And 00 could give a sissy.
Remember,
it's fanatic,
not based on how the world spelt or suis or Seuss or even S O.
S.
Could you imagine a deejay signal in S.
O.
S on the White House lawn?
Quite possibly.
Now I must admit that this was the very first system I learned for memorizing numbers.
So it remains with me firmly.
But when it came to use it,
I sometimes find it quite difficult to come up with words or released meaningful ways they
could utilise on the fly.
That said,
that was the latest on the world has moved on a little since then.
No,
we have the Internet.
If you do struggle,
there is an excellent website,
probably more than one that you can use.
Just type in the number and hey,
presto out Pop your words.
So this is immensely helpful.
If you have a little time to sit down and play with it,
you will need to memorize the table,
which you could do in five minutes,
to be honest,
but the website takes all the heavy lifting out.
If you don't need to memorize on the spot,
there's a link in the download brawl.
Show it to you in the next lecture.
I'll see you that.